Packages (#59)
slingr-stack/slingr-docs: content/en/extensions/packages/create-your-own-package.md

---
title: "Create your own package"
description: "Here you will find information to create your own package."
date: 2020-11-16T13:59:39+01:00
lastmod: 2020-11-16T13:59:39+01:00
draft: false
images: []
menu:
  docs:
    parent: "packages"
toc: true
weight: 1
---

You have the ability to create your packages and  import them into your apps. Through this you can easily add prebuilt functionalities
to your apps. This is useful to replicate common business rules in many apps. The most common example is a package that helps to use the http
service and consume a specific external service.

The process of creating a new pacakges involves three fundamental steps:

1. **Package creation**: Design and set up your new package in git-hub repo.
2. **Package registration**: Register your developed package within the Slingr developer portal.
3. **Package installation**: Install the package in your app and test it.

## Package creation

> The first thing you will need to do is creating a git-hub repo that will contain the new package data. We recommend you start the package creation by making a fork of the [skeleton-package](https://github.com/slingr-stack/skeleton-package)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first thing you will need to do is creating a git-hub repo that will contain the new package data. We recommend that you start the package creation by creating a new repository using the Public template of the [skeleton-package](https://github.com/slingr-stack/skeleton-package)
```

  we only support GitHub repositories and you need to give read access to the repository to the user `slingr-builder`.
  The URL must be in `SSH` format like `git@github.com:workspace_id/repo_name.git`.
- `Folder`: in case the package is under one specific folder. In most cases will be empty.
- `Visibility`: this could be private or public. If it is public any app will be able to use it. If it is private, you
  will be able to indicate which apps can access the package and it will be available for them.

When you register a new package it is associated to the developer that registered it, but it is possible to transfer
the ownership to another account if needed through a tool available in the package edition section.

Once the package gets registered, you are able to update the available versions with an action in the developer portal. Every time a new tag
is pushed to the repo, the versions should be updated this way. You are not able to replace versions ofpackages. When ever new versions are desired you

> need to create new versions of it.

Reviewer: Add something like:

`The first public version of the package, which will have a tag to be push, must be on the **master** branch. After that you can make use of all versioning mechanisms.`
